August 10, 2017 10:22 IST
Updated:
August 10, 2017 10:29 IST
more-in
Dar-us-Salam, the property in question, was the official residence of Chief Justice of the princely state of Bhopal,
Veteran actress Sharmila Tagore has filed a complaint on behalf of the Bhopal royal family against occupants of a prime residential property in the picturesque Koh-e-Fiza area , following which the district administration has issued notices to them.
Sharmila, wife of cricketer Mansoor Ali Khan Pataudi Saif Ali Khan’s mother, has claimed ownership of the property.
Pataudi was the rightful heir of the royal family of Bhopal’s princely state as he was the grandson of the last Nawab of Bhopal, Hamidullah Khan.
“A couple of months back, Sharmila Tagore had claimed ownership on the land of Dar-usalam, a residential property in Koh—e—Fiza, and urged to get this property evicted. We have now served the notices to the present occupants — Azam Khan and Nawab Raza — to furnish their replies. These persons were named by her,” Tehsildar, Bairagarh circle, Ajay Pratap Singh Patel said.
The administration was still waiting for the reply.
The actress reportedly had said in her written complaint to the district administration that these persons (Syed Nawab Raza and Azam) had trespassed into her property.
She has also alleged that they, along with some anti—social elements, broke locks of the house and stole some precious antiques, articles, furniture etc and has also accused the duo of forging the property ownership documents.
Dar-us-Salam, the property in question, was the official residence of Chief Justice of the princely state of Bhopal, Justice Salamuddin Khan. The property is reportedly occupied by Azam Khan, husband of late Mahira Salamuddin who was the granddaughter of Justice Salamuddin.
After the death of Mahira Salamuddin, Azam Khan reportedly put the property on sale citing a ‘hibanama’ or a gift—deed from Nawab to the Salamuddin family as ownership document.
When contacted, Azam Khan, however, said that he was yet to receive any notice.
“I have not received any notice so far. I cannot talk more,” he told PTI over phone.
