August 10, 2017 02:24 IST
Updated:
August 10, 2017 08:10 IST
more-in
Blames KTR for not taking action against police in Nerella case
Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy asked people to revive the spirit of Quit India Movement to restore democratic values and defend secularism.
Mr. Reddy addressed the party workers after hoisting National Flag at Gandhi Bhavan on the occasion of 75th anniversary of Quit India Movement and said that the Congress workers should get motivated by the movement and take on the Governments in the State and at the Centre for suppressing fundamental rights of the people.
He said that minorities, dalits, girijans and women were not feeling safe under BJP-TRS regimes.
The TPCC chief later addressed a press conference where he accused the RSS of opposing Quit India Movement. He said that the RSS did not participate in the movement and yet the same RSS ideologues were the heroes for the BJP now,” he said.
He said that Congress president Sonia Gandhi had instructed the party cadre to wage a fight against injustices being meted out to deprived and weaker sections and the Congress would continue to fight the BJP and TRS Government, who he said were violating the human rights. Leader of Opposition in Council Mohammed Ali Shabbir, TPCC Vice-President Mallu Ravi were among those present.
KTR criticised
The AICC member and TPCC Treasurer Guduru Narayana Reddy in a statement criticised IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao on meeting the Nerella victims and alleged that the Minister moved only because the Congress moved the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC).
He said that KTR’s assurances to the victims were hollow and were devoid of sincerity as despite being the local MLA he did not find time to meet the victims in the last 35 days.
He said that the Minister met the victims without the presence of the media and with full police protection and it reflected his fear and guilt. He should have taken action against the guilty police personnel long back given the intensity of the issue.
