August 10, 2017 00:41 IST
Updated:
August 10, 2017 07:58 IST
more-in
Fresh norms on fund allocation and making grading mandatory may encourage more educational institutions to take an active role in the ranking process
The State has 83 government arts and science colleges. Yet, only a handful have been regular in getting accreditation. Although 728 colleges are listed under the State by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council, only 51 government arts and science colleges have received accreditation at any given point of time.
The accredited colleges have received good ratings, yet this has not enthused even these institutions to go for re-accreditation. According to former president of the Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers Association R. Venkatachalam, better awareness about accreditation prevailed among government colleges and they were applying for the same and were declared eligible for research funding.
But statistics show that only 14 colleges have participated in all the three cycles of accreditation. A total of 28 colleges participated in two cycles, and, nine in just one cycle.
Last week, during his interaction, NAAC Chairman V.S. Chauhan had said that in the long run accreditation would be mandatory and the inference was that funding for projects would also depend on ratings.
Lack of interest
Some of the older institutions with good infrastructure have not gone for re-accreditation, laments a Namakkal-based retired teacher. He attributed the apathy to lack of interest from administrative heads such as the Directorate of Collegiate Education.
According to M. Ravichandran, who has served two terms as University Grants Commission coordinator, the problem lies elsewhere. “In terms of sending utilisation certificate for the 9th, 10th and 11 Plan period, Dr. Ambedkar Government Arts College (Vyasarpadi) showed remarkable fiscal responsibility,” says Mr. Ravichandran, who had served as principal.
The college has participated in two cycles, in 2005 and 2016, and received B grade. Recalling his experiences as UGC coordinator, he says that transparent allocation of funds and submitting the audit report to the UGC on time had helped them garner more funds.
