August 10, 2017 17:30 IST
Updated:
August 10, 2017 19:21 IST
more-in
Independence Day
Suggestions are pouring in on what subjects the Prime Minister Narendra Modi should refer to in his Independence Day speech. Just like 2015, this time too, he has sought comments from people through his personal app or the e-governance portal.
From a ban on cigarettes to a law that would bar big feasts during death rituals such as Shraadh in order to protect the poor, more than 8,000 comments and suggestions have come in from across the country.
According to officials dealing with the suggestions, around 6,000 comments came from the the NaMo app and 2,216 from MyGov.in. “We have sent one batch of précis of suggestions on August 8 and will be sending a second batch around 12th or 13th for Prime Minister Modi’s perusal,” said an official. But what the Prime Minister chooses to speak will be known only on August 15.
Popular among suggestions were the quality of education, Clean India, digitisation as a tool to end corruption, and Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao — a set that could well be a guide to future priorities for governance.
Frequent suggestions include the setting up of a national employment projection portal by “taking into account all private and public industry growth patterns and requirements for the next 5-10 years which will give a great direction for parents, students and educational institutions to build the right skills and curriculum for employment.”
One person from Jalaur, Rajasthan, says that for every child born in this country, parents of the new-born must plant a tree and provide “proof” of having done so to get the child’s birth registered. Loking at the population that is affecting the environment, this could be a way out, he says.
Another suggestion from Himachal Pradesh on MyGov portal is that instead of a place of worship, a school or madrassa could be established at the disputed site in Ayodhya. The same person wants an all India law restricting the expenditure on weddings as such ostentation can impoverish many families.
