August 10, 2017 04:27 IST
Updated:
August 10, 2017 08:07 IST
more-in
Telangana
He criticised the Opposition, the Congress in particular, for describing the incident as an attack on dalits
The Government will initiate action against the policemen concerned if they are proved guilty of ‘excessive behaviour’ in the Nerella incident said Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao.
The Minister, who drew flak from the Opposition for the alleged police excesses on the protesting people at Nerella, said that the victims’ families complained of police excesses during his visit to Nerella in his native Sircilla constituency on Tuesday.
The Director General of Police ordered an inquiry by DIG-rank officer into the incident. “The inquiry has been ordered as the Government cannot go by one-sided version. Action will be initiated against the officers concerned if they are proved guilty of excessive behaviour,” he asserted.
He criticised the Opposition, the Congress in particular, for describing the incident as an attack on dalits and said that attacks on dalits in Karamchedu, Tsundur and other places were the hallmark of the Congress regime.
The opposition parties were indulging in mud-slinging on the Government for an incident which was result of the instantaneous reaction of the people. “There is no need for the Government to provoke police officials. Being an elected representative of the constituency, I will support the people of the constituency rather than backing the police,” he said.
He described the leaders of opposition parties as ‘political tourists’ who were devoid of work after the Government initiated slew of welfare and development measures. “Once these political tourists are out, you will see me in action there,” he said asserting that he would contest from the same constituency in the next elections too.
Mr. Rama Rao reiterated that the Himanshu Motors, a tractor stockyard in Siddipet, was in no way concerned with the orders issued by the State Government for purchase of vehicles for the police. “The company incurred losses since 2011 and it has not been in active business ever since. It is existing on paper as we have not initiated the process of winding it up with the Registrar of Companies,” he said.
