August 10, 2017 00:35 IST
Updated:
August 10, 2017 00:35 IST
more-in
His field of specialisation is virtual reality
Being part of a number of smart city projects in South Korea, HyungSeok Kim, professor from Konkuk University, South Korea, will guide students of B. Tech Information Technology of VIT University to develop a virtual reality application primarily to promote tourism of the Vellore city.
Mr. Kim, a professor in the Department of Software in Konkuk University, is an adjunct professor at VIT University.
While computer graphics is his field of work, his research interest is in virtual reality, with smart city being one of the focus areas.
One of the projects that he was part of in South Korea was building the whole country of South Korea using virtual reality, the data for which has been opened for the public as a business platform, he said during an interaction with mediapersons on Wednesday.
Virtual fashion
“This data can be used for giving virtual advertisement and for people who want to visit the country,” he said.
Another virtual reality-based project had its benefits for the construction sector as it enabled a person to see on screen the current state of construction and the end result.
“We developed virtual fashion in which a camera captures a person and the 3D body is constructed. They can try on different materials to see whether it fits the body and give orders to the factory to come up with necessary modifications.
This is now being implemented in big departmental stores,” he added.
His expertise in smart city projects could be of help as Vellore Corporation has been selected by the Union Urban Development Ministry for the Smart City project.
Aswani Kumar Cherukuri, professor and dean, School of Information Technology and Engineering, VIT University, said that VIT would like to take part in the Smart City project especially to promote tourism, heritage and culture of the Fort city.
“We want to explore the opportunities. We can bolster the smart city initiative using virtual reality. We can develop a virtual reality application to promote tourism. There are many tourism destinations in the city. The students can develop the smart application with the guidance of Professor Kim,” he said.
Mr. Kim is teaching students of B. Tech Information Technology for the course on Computer Graphics and Multimedia. As part of this, final year students will spend six months in Konkuk University for a project.
Mr. Kim, who is the academic director of Human Computer Interaction Society of Korea, is looking at two new projects.
“First is medical virtual reality. In this, I want to develop a technology to help surgeons. There will be a screen in front of the surgeon and he will wear a glass. He will be able to see the patient’s CT scan and diagnosed data on the operation table to know the real problem and best method to be applied,” he said.
He was exploring this project with two surgeons for hip bone surgery and brain cancer.
His second project, which is a futuristic one, was for virtual embodiment in which a person can be any entity in virtual reality, he added.
