August 10, 2017 17:01 IST
Updated:
August 10, 2017 17:03 IST
more-in
The members of Rajya Sabha joined hands to bid farewell to Mr. Ansari, who was the Chairman of the House for 10 years.
Thursday was the last day of Hamid Ansari's term as Vice President. The members of Rajya Sabha joined hands to bid farewell to Mr. Ansari, who was the Chairman of the House for 10 years.
Here are select quotes from prominent members.
Arun Jaitley, Leader of the House, Rajya Sabha
A Chairman's job is also a thankless job. We have seen at times when the members had disrupted the House, your anguish was visible, more visible in the concluding statements at the end of the session. But the House has tendency of working overtime, when it starts working.
Your tenure may have seen disturbances but have also seen high-quality debates.
In exasperation, you once called us a federation of anarchists. Some of us, I was one of the culprits in that, we wanted the Chair to set up a precedent of expunging its own remarks. You used it as an opportunity for a democratic debate whether there is anything objectionable in the word anarchy. The debate took an interesting dimension whether anarchists can have a federation. The debate didn't end but you carry forward the memories. But you stand vindicated as somewhere in the world anarchists have actually formed a federation.
I am sure you retire with fond memories.
Narendra Modi, Prime Minister
You have been a career diplomat. I got to know what it was like to be a career diplomat only after becoming the Prime Minister. There is a meaning behind their smile or a hand shake. They have been trained in these skills. I am sure that skill would have been useful to you in these 10 years.
The insights I learned from you during our interactions helped me understand more, especially during my foreign visits. I thank you for that.
Manmohan Singh, former Prime Minister, Congress
As a Prime Minister of India, I have received maximum possible guidance and cooperation from you and you have been my friend, philosopher, and guide.
Ghulab Nabi Azad, Leader of Opposition
You are a sportsman. You must not have got time to play golf in these 10 years, but you can restart now. If I permanently retire someday, I will join you in the game.
P.J. Kurien, Deputy Chairman
"We are not the creators of our destiny. If we were, we would have unanimously passed a resolution that the Chairman should continue. You were par excellence in whatever post you had. It was a privilege to work with you, you've protected, supported and guided me. Hope you live a long life."
Derek O'Brien, Trinamool Congress
"You increased the House run time by one hour. Now 15 of us can express ourselves every day due to the time limit three 3 minutes you've set. Even if a member ducks a question, you came up with a move that someone else can answer a supplementary. This was the smartest of all your moves. Now there is no way to duck the question."
Sitaram Yechury, CPI(M)
"You stood like a rock in defence of this House. You had a distinguished career. I recollected the reputation that you came with, apart from the glorious reputation you had, you were known as the best umpire that Aligarh University ever produced. You have conducted it all in a very meticulous fashion."
Majeed Memon, NCP
"We would miss you being here, you've been a teacher, you've taught us law. This is a big loss for us. I know you'll continue to be a great asset in the future. Hope your activities continue with good health. You've accomplished the job in an excellent manner."
Naresh Gujral, SAD
"You recognised our independent group. This Chair lends dignity to the person occupying it but with you, it is the other way around. We wish you good health and many years in the service of the nation."
Ali Anwar Ansari, JD(U)
I am in awe of how you have delegated the responsibility to the Deputy Chairman. When I see Mr. Kurien in the Chair conducting the business of the House, it appears like he is the Hanuman carrying out the responsibilities delegated to him by Lord Ram. This is a virtue of a leader, to give the limelight to the subordinates as well.
Dilip Kumar Tirkey, BJD
You have always mentioned about the weaker section of the society in all your speeches.
D. Raja, CPI
You were a great reformer. The reforms you brought in Question Hour, Zero Hour and calling attention motions are significant and Rajya Sabha will ever remember those reforms. You took a decision that no Bill will be passed in the din. It is very significant in Rajya Sabha's history.
Rajiv Pratap Rudy, MoS Skill Development, and Entrepreneurship
You have child-like imagination on aviation and cars. Once you retire, when you have time, you should come back to Constitution Club and I would like to share those personal moments again.
Rajeev Chandrasekhar, Independent
Your leadership of the House has been dignified, exemplary and honorable, despite the frequent provocations by the politics of our Parliament.
Tiruchi Siva, DMK
We have learned a lot from you, I had the opportunity to travel abroad with you where I saw a different dimension of you — your magnanimity, tolerance, and humility. You were concerned about the country. You have given simple solutions to bigger issues.
V. Maitreyan, AIADMK
"I still vividly remember your initial years. Ahluwalia, Naresh Agarwal and I were three musketeers who used to bother the House. But in spite of our repeated over-indulgence, you were so kind to give me ample opportunities. I wish you a long and a healthy life. I wish you score a century."
Sanjay Raut, Shiv Sena
We will miss someone who we respect and love a lot. You have always been impartial, well-balanced and never allowed to break the rules and regulations of the House.
Anu Aga, nominated member
"By your values and behaviour, you have brought dignity to this House. You have remained impartial and fair and never showed any partiality to any member or party. We will miss your dignified presence and wish you best of health."
Naresh Agrawal, Samajwadi Party
It is said that a man is known by his position, but in your case, the position was known because of you. You were not a politician, but you taught us politics. You taught me discipline, I taught the House Point of Order.
