Piyush Gopal: "By August 15, 2022, electricity to reach all homes."
12.40 p.m. | Rajya Sabha
MoS Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Rajiv Pratap Rudy to Mr. Ansari: "You'll be a part of our assignments and I like to share moments with you again, Sir."
AIADMK MP V. Maitreyan: "I still vividly remember your initial years. Ahluwalia, Naresh Agarwal and myself were three musketeers who used to bother the House. But inspite of our repeated over indulgence, you were so kind to give me ample opportunities. I wish you a long and a healthy life. I wish you score a century."
"I am looking at the watch. I have to call on Rashtrapati ji," says Mr. Ansari.
Karnataka INC MP K. Rahman Khan: "Hope you live a long life. Even after this journey, hope you continue your duty towards the nation."
Nominated MP Anu Aga: "You have brought dignity to this House. You have remained impartial and fair. We will miss your dignified presence and wish you best of health."
Nominated MP K. Parasaran, JDU MP Veerendra Kumar, Dr. Narendra Jadhav add their views and wish luck to Mr. Ansari.
12.30 p.m. | Lok Sabha
West Bengal AITC MP Prof Saugata Roy: "24 states affected by floods including Gujarat, Assam. West Bengal is the most affected. Six regions of Bengal are badly flooded. Crops are washed away. PM announced package for Gujarat and Assam, but not for West Bengal."
12.30 p.m. | Rajya Sabha
Former PM Manmohan Singh to Chairman Hamid Ansari, "You have have been a friend, philosopher and guide."
Telangana INC MP Anand Bhaskar Rapolu: "As I used to get several chance of supplementary, you have laid a wonderful model to the parliamentary practices."
Karnataka's Independent MP Rajeev Chandrasekar, Kerala IUML MP Abdul Wahab, YSRCP MP V. Vijaysai Reddy, MoS Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athavale wish Mr. Ansari good luck.
12.20 p.m. | Lok Sabha
Lok Sabha calls attention to problems due to floods in different parts of the country and the steps taken by the govt. Assam INC MP Gourav Gogoi: "60% of the funds due to the state of Assam is yet to be released from the Cente. Flood management programs are delayed. Rivers are eating up lands. When will the govt wake up?"
"Why only ₹2,000 crore for the whole of North East?," asks Mr. Gogoi.
12.20 p.m. | Rajya Sabha
Jammu and Kashmir PDP MP Nazir Ahmad Laway says he is grateful in working with Mr. Ansari, praises his secularist approach. "When Mufti Saab sent me to the parliament, he asked me to learn from Chairman Ansari."
CPI MP D. Raja: "We learnt a great deal of things from you. I used the word 'genocide' for the first time. It was later accepted and nothing unparliamentary."
12.10 p.m. | Rajya Sabha
Tiruchi Selva, DMK MP from Tamil Nadu: "Many members focused attention of various attributes of you as a politician, as a Chairman, as a cricketer. But as an individual, we have learnt a lot from you, I had the opportunity to travel abroad with you where I saw a different dimension of you — your magnanimity, tolerance and humility.. You were concerned about the country. You have given simple solutions to bigger issues. It is not an exaggeration to appreciate you.
I appreciate your passing of Women's Reservation Bill and impeachment of a HC judge.
Something that I learnt from the North Indian members here, Kabhi Alvida na kehna," to which members thump on their tables.
Punjab SAD MP Naresh Gujral: "You recognised our independent group. This Chair lends dignity to the person occupying it but with you, it is the other way around. We wish you good health and many years in the service of the nation."
12 noon | Lok Sabha
Papers are being laid on the table.
12 noon | Rajya Sabha
Maharashtra NCP MP Majeed Memon: "We would miss you being here, you've been a teacher, you've taught us law. This is a big loss for us. I know you'll continue to be a great asset in the future. Hope your activities continue with good health. You've accomplished the job in an excellent manner."
Uttar Pradesh BSP MP Veer Singh: "You've given us all time to express our points. You are a writer too, hope your writing continues. I wish you all the best on behalf of our party."
TDP MP C.M. Ramesh: "On behalf of Chandrababu Naidu, I thank you for your advice during Andhra Pradesh bifurcation. You understood my situation. I appreciate your discipline and the way you stick to a certain subject during matters of discussion."
Odisha BJD MP Dilip Kumar Tirkey wishes Mr. Ansari: "We had organised hockey for tribal youth. You visited and supported us. We have learnt a lot from you. Thank you."
11.50 a.m. | Lok Sabha
Piyush Goyal, MoS.(Ind.) Power, Coal and Mines discusses outstanding debt of DISCOMS: India produces the best smart meters. Our aim is to bring the cost of Smart meters below ₹1000.
"It is the central govt that is implementing rural electricity and not state govt. Smart meters, are they from Gujarat or China?," asks Tathagata Satpathy, to which Mr. Goyal replies, "I requested Odisha to expedite the electrification work. Due to the failure of the state, we initiated the work. BGCIL & NTPC took it up because of failure of state. Odisha govt didn't take up tenders."
11.50 a.m. | Rajya Sabha
Bihar JD(U) MP Ali Anwar Ansari takes his turn in bidding farewell to Mr. Ansari.
West Bengal CPI(M) MP Sitaram Yechury: You stood like a rock in defence of this House. You had a distinguished career. I recollected the reputation that you came with, apart from the glorious reputation you had, you were known as the best umpire that Aligarh University ever produced. You have conducted it all in a very meticulous fashion."
11.30 a.m. | Rajya Sabha
West Bengal AITC MP Derek O'Brien: "You still look 60, when you're closer to 70."
Mr. Ansari replies, "Wrong," with a smile.
Mr. O'Brien: "You haven't had lunch in the last 40 years. All you have for lunch, are sandwiches. That's why you look so young. You introduced cricket in Iran. You have seven dogs in your home. After this ten year journey, you're moving on. You're walking across the road. You're going to 31, APJ Abdul Kalam Road."
"I end my term in a few days from now. What I learnt is that Rajya Sabha would run from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Congratulations on increasing it by one hour. Now 15 of us can express ourselves everyday due to the time limit of 3 minutes you've set. Even if a member ducks a question, you came up with a move that someone else can answer a supplementary. This was the smartest of all your moves. Now there is no way to duck the question.
The most meaningful of them all, you gave a name to the morning club, the tea-club. You and many of my colleagues and my party and myself, I know your roots are in Kolkata. We know you'll be living in Delhi, but please come back home, to Kolkata. You have never lost your sense of humour. You must be an inspiration to all pensioners. Thank you for inspiring all of us."
11.30 a.m. | Lok Sabha
BJP's Karnataka MP Prahlad Joshi from Dharwad talks about water scarcity in Karnataka and de-notifying of lakes.
11.20 a.m. | Rajya Sabha
Uttar Pradesh's Samajwadi Party MP Ram Gopal Yadav appreciates Mr. Ansari's efforts and wishes him a long life on his party's behalf.
Tamil Nadu AIADMK MP A. Navaneethakrishnan: "I thank Honourable Amma for giving me this opportunity. Discipline is the most important character in this House. Our Honourable Chairman dealt many issues without any discrimination or bias."
11.10 a.m. | Lok Sabha
MPs discuss shortage of water during Question Hour in Lok Sabha.
11:00 a.m.|Rajya Sabha
As Rajya Sabha Chairman Hamid Ansari chairs the Upper House, Leader of the House Arun Jaitley wishes Mr. Ansari all the best and praises his leadership skills and wishes him good luck.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi appreciates Mr. Ansari in making him understand a career diplomat's role. "I appreciate your insights after my  international tours. I am grateful to you and your talent in leading a way for the nation," Mr. Modi told Mr. Ansari.
Read more
 
Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad wishes him the best and says he is grateful to Mr. Ansari's strength in confidence-building measures, his honorary degrees from three countries, appreciates the books he has written and praises him being the best Chairman compared to the others. "You've been running sessions with diplomacy. You're a sportsman too. Now I think you will have time to play golf. I wish Allah give you a long life. "
 
