August 10, 2017 00:29 IST
Updated:
August 10, 2017 08:10 IST
more-in
Chandrababu Naidu vows to increase the area under coffee cultivation in the Agency
Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Wednesday announced the sanction of a women’s degree college at Araku, an eco-tourism project, at an estimated cost of ₹110 crore, at Araku with private participation and a double road with central lighting on the main road, among other things.
Mr. Naidu participated in the International Day of the World’s Indigenous People (Adivasi Day) celebrations along with Governor ESL Narasimhan at the NTR Grounds here.
Describing Adivasis as ‘gems of the soil,’ Mr. Naidu said they had proved that they were second to none. Tribal children from AP had scaled Mt. Everest, some of them put up a good show in international archery competitions and now many of the tribal youth were proving their talent in studies by joining the civil services. He said English medium was being introduced in Girijan schools.
On the improvement of livelihood of the tribal people, he said coffee plantations along with the inter crops like pepper and silver oak could give high returns to the farmers. “My objective is to ensure that five lakh acres in the Visakhapatnam Agency is brought under coffee cultivation. Already 1.5 lakh acres is under coffee cultivation.”
Mr. Naidu said the tribal areas were blessed with rich natural resources and clean environment and called upon the Adivasis to utilise locally available resources to multiply their income. Organic foods were in great demand and tribal farmers could use manure to grow vegetables, rice and other crops. The export potential of the popular Araku coffee should be tapped, he said.
On the bauxite issue, the CM pointed out that recognising the sentiments of the Girijans, mining had been put on hold.
Crafts bazaar
Mr. Narasimhan, during his address, suggested setting up of a permanent crafts bazaar at Araku to showcase the traditions and culture like clothing and jewellery to tourists. Similar bazaars should be opened in all major cities and towns of the country.
Earlier, Araku MLA K. Sarveswara Rao outlined development works initiated in the constituency and pending works, which needed early action.
Minister for Tribal Welfare N. Anand Babu, Ministers Ganta Srinivasa Rao and Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu, former Ministers, Zilla Parishad Chairperson Lalam Bhavani, former MLA s, District Collector Pravin Kumar and GCC MD ASPS Ravi Prakash were among those present.
