August 10, 2017 16:44 IST
Updated:
August 11, 2017 15:56 IST
more-in
Says only Sasikala can remove him; questions issue of statement under AIADMK letterhead
Undeterred by the resolution adopted by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami-led faction holding invalid his appointment as deputy general secretary of the AIADMK(Amma), T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Thursday said none except party general secretary V.K. Sasikala could remove him and that he would continue in the post.
At a crowded press conference here, Mr. Dhinakaran said there was absolutely no bar on him to continue in the post. He was appointed by Sasikala, who was formally appointed as general secretary by the General Council of the party following the death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. As per the party by-laws, he had all powers to appoint or remove anyone from party posts so as to strengthen the organisation.
Mr. Dhinakaran pointed out that the Election Commission had barred anyone from using the name AIADMK. The Commission had recognised two factions such as AIADMK (Amma) led by Sasikala and AIADMK (Puratchi Thalaivi Amma) led by O. Panneerselvam.
‘Violation of EC order’
There was no faction called Palaniswami faction. However, Mr. Palaniswami and others had issued a statement on the letterhead of the undivided AIADMK. “This is serious violation of the EC order. They would have to lose their posts if the issue was taken to the notice of Election Commission,” Mr.Dhinakaran said. The announcement made by a section of office-bearers would have no bearing on the party, he added.
It was Sasikala who made Mr. Palaniswami Chief Minister. Mr.Palaniswami himself had endorsed his appointment as deputy general secretary in the affidavit filed before the Election Commission. However, ‘self-serving persons’ have now joined hands with enemies to unseat her and others from party posts so as to continue in power. Mr. Dhinakaran said he had all rights to take disciplinary action against the Chief Minister and others for anti-party activities.
He said “a group of people” were acting against the party “out of fear” as they had something to hide. Those turning against him were the same people who had endorsed his appointment as deputy general secretary before the Election Commission and campaigned with him in the R.K. Nagar by-election. “They have been trying to create confusion among the cadre to protect themselves. They have scant regard for the party and the government. Their aim is to swindle as much as possible till they stay in power,” he claimed.
Support base
The question how many MLAs belonging to AIADMK (Amma) are with Mr. Dhinakaran may be answered on Monday next when Mr. Dhinakaran holds his first public meeting in Madurai.
Last week, he made appointments covering 20 MLAs and two of them have refused to take up the assignments. Two others, who had originally turned down his offer, later retracted their decision. In effect, the camp belonging to Mr. Dhinakaran can claim to enjoy the support of 18 MLAs. In the days immediately after his release from the Tihar jail two months ago, 32 legislators had expressed solidarity with him.
The camp led by Chief Minister has been saying that it enjoys the support of 124 MLAs including those who had met Mr. Dhinakaran in early June. The OPS camp claims support of 10 MLAs.
