August 10, 2017 02:34 IST
Updated:
August 10, 2017 08:07 IST
more-in
Protest against police action against dharna by students
The Akhila Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) has called for a bandh of all colleges on August 10 in protest against the police lathi-charge on the ABVP activists when they staged a dharna in front of all the Collectorates in the State on Wednesday demanding immediate action on students issues.
In Warangal, a number of student activists were injured in a lathicharge by the police who stopped them from barging into the Warangal Urban Collector Office. In Nizamabad and Khammam the protesting activists were arrested and later released.
ABVP workers Kayam Narendra, B. Laxminarayana, A. Rajinikanth and Ramakrishna sustained severe injuries in the lathicharge by the police in Warangal on Wednesday.
Thousands of students from different educational institutions took out a rally from Ekasila Park to the Collectorate demanding that the State government release fee reimbursement amount due for a long time. ABVP urban district convenor P Venu said the TRS government failed to deliver its promises like free KG to PG education and jobs to unemployed youth. ABVP activists took out similar rallies in Khammam and Nalgonda.
“People are being hoodwinked by frequent job notifications which resulted in nothing. People doubt the commitment of the state government and it is time that the Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao does some introspection,” he said. There was no control on private educational institutions which were looting parents and students. The schools, colleges and hostels in government sector were in a pathetic condition, he added.
The ABVP has called for a state wide bandh of colleges on Thursday in protest against the police action against the protesting students.
In Nizamabad, ABVP activists took out a rally and later staged a dharna in front of the Collectorate. Police arrested and shifted the protesting students to different police stations when they tried to barge into the Collectorate premises. Later, in the evening they were set free after execution of bonds.
The students took out similar rallies in Khammam, Nalgonda and other parts of the state.
