August 10, 2017 00:31 IST
Updated:
August 10, 2017 07:23 IST
more-in
Edappadi urges loyalists and cadre to defeat those trying to destroy party
Recalling AIADMK founder and former chief minister MGR’S friendly relationship with Prime Ministers during his tenure, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday wondered why his opponents were criticising his attempts to maintain friendly relations with the Centre.
Speaking at the MGR centenary celebrations in Villupuram, Mr. Palanisamy said that when similar criticisms were made against MGR, he had replied that he was maintaining a cordial and friendly relationship with the Centre for the welfare of the people and for implementing development schemes.
The AIADMK (Amma) government was also following the path shown byMGR and former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. In an apparent attack against the factions, he said that some sections were dreaming of toppling the government. “They will never succeed,” he said asking cadre and loyalists to work together to defeat those trying to destroy the party.
Desalination Plant
The Chief Minister announced schemes for Villupuram district which included a desalination plant at Marakkanam with a capacity of 100 MLD to supply protected drinking water to Villupuram, Thirunavalur, Ulundurpet, Sankarapuram, Rishivandiyam, Kallakurichi and Kalvarayan hills.
The government has also sanctioned Rs198 crores for implementing theUnderground sewerage scheme in areas added to Villupuram municipality. He named the Government Women and Arts College in Villupuram and the indoor stadium at the Collectorate complex after MGR.
Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam said that doubts were raised at the stability of the government by some sections. While O Panneerselvam could be the Chief Minister for only a short period of 45 days, Mr. Palanisamy has ensured smooth administration for the last seven months. Hence, contrary to the expectations by vested interests, this government would remain stable and continue to work for the welfare of the people, he said. Assembly Speaker P. Dhanapal and other Ministers participated.
