August 10, 2017 18:27 IST
Updated:
August 11, 2017 09:18 IST
more-in
On the eve of being sworn in as Vice-President, he warns that singling out one community would draw adverse reaction from others.
Vice-President-elect M. Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday rejected as “political propaganda” the view that there is a sense of insecurity among minorities in the country, in what is being seen as a response to remarks made by the outgoing Vice-Presiden t Hamid Ansari in a television interview.
“Some people are saying minorities are insecure. It is a political propaganda. Compared to the entire world, minorities are more safe and secure in India and they get their due,” Mr. Naidu said.
He also said he disagreed with the view that there was growing intolerance, saying Indian society is the most tolerant in the world because of its people and civilisation. “There is tolerance that is why democracy is so successful,” he said.
The former BJP president also cautioned against creating divide in the nation by singling out one community, saying it will draw adverse reaction from other communities.
“If you single out one community, other communities will take it otherwise. That is why we say all are equal. Appeasement for none justice for all,” he added.
‘No discrimination’
He said history has proved that there is no discrimination against minorities. “They (minorities) got in prominent positions including constitutional responsibilities because there is no discrimination, and also on account of their merit,” he said.
Asked about incidents of alleged intolerance, Mr Naidu said India was a huge country and there could be some “stray” occurrences, which are “nothing but aberrations”.
“Nobody can justify attacks on fellow citizens on the basis of community. Such incidents should be condemned and action should be taken by appropriate authorities,” he said.
Mr Naidu also said some people blow out of proportion such incidents for political considerations. Some go to the extent of “defaming” the county by raising such issues at international forum.
Some do it to create rift between communities and derive political mileage, he said, adding the basic problem arises due to vote bank politics and due to treating a community as vote bank.
BJP condemns
BJP leaders too did not mince any words and referred directly to Mr. Ansari and his interview. Party general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said that “such a petty” remark was not expected from someone on his (Mr Ansari’s ) position. \
“I condemn his comments. He had made political comments as he is retiring. He is still a Vice-President and such comments do not reflect his office’s dignity. It seems he is making such comments to find political shelter after retirement,” he said.
(With PTI Inputs)
