August 10, 2017 00:32 IST
Updated:
August 10, 2017 07:24 IST
more-in
‘Government will protect interest of Tamil Nadu students’
The State government will bring about clarity on National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) within two days, Health Minister C. Vijaya Baskar said.
All steps have been taken by the government to protect interest of Tamil Nadu students, he told reporters here on Wednesday.
Under the direction of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Ministers and officials have, time and again, taken up the NEET issue with the Centre, he said.
The matter concerned the future of a large number of students and could not be dragged on for a long time. “The issue will be settled in two days. Students and parents need not get confused,” Dr. Vijaya Baskar said.
The Minister, who was here to review the progress of dengue-control operations, said the government has launched multi-dimensional initiative coordinating with various departments under the direct supervision of the Chief Minister.
Government hospitals in the State are well equipped to diagnose any form of viral fever within 24 hours. Tamil Nadu is ahead of other States in providing healthcare to people. The government’s main intention is preventing loss of lives due to dengue or viral fever, the Minister said.
More than 25,000 field staff have been pressed into service along with 3,500 health inspectors across the State. Hundreds of hospital-on-wheels have been visiting dengue-hit rural areas for the past several days. Dengue is controllable and the government will be able to contain it within 10 days, Dr. Vijaya Baskar said exuding confidence.
Replying to a question, he said about 5,000 people, young and old, have reportedly been affected by dengue this year. The government is very transparent and has nothing to hide on the number of dengue deaths. Many affected people who visit the outpatient wards at government hospitals are being admitted as inpatients for saving their lives.
The Health Department, through the Indian Medical Association (IMA), has issued various guidelines to private hospitals for treating people affected by viral fever and dengue. The department is also closely monitoring all the hospitals.
J. Radhakrishnan, Health Secretary, who was also present, said deaths due to viral fever this year were less compared to last year’s figures in the State.
