August 10, 2017 08:04 IST
Updated:
August 10, 2017 08:04 IST
more-in
Party says State police does not function neutrally during polls
The State leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday demanded that Central forces be deployed for the upcoming elections to seven civic bodies in West Bengal. A delegation of BJP leaders met officials of the West Bengal State Election Commission (WBSEC) during the day and raised the demand citing the alleged “terror tactics” of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) during polls.
“We have demanded the deployment of Central forces in the upcoming civic polls as free and fair polls in Bengal are not possible due to the TMC’s electoral malpractices. The State police also do not function neutrally during polls,” State BJP general secretary Debasree Chaudhuri, who was a member of the delegation, told The Hindu . She also said that it is for the “first time” that the State BJP has demanded deployment of Central forces during civic polls.
‘Awful track record’
Elaborating further on the reason behind demanding deployment of Central forces in the civic polls, she said that the “awful track record of the State police during earlier polls in Bengal shows the necessity of Central forces during the civic polls.” She also said that the delegation has submitted copies of the FIRs lodged in cases of violence allegedly conducted by TMC cadres in earlier polls in Bengal.
The WBSEC in July announced that elections to seven civic bodies will be held on August 13 (Sunday). Durgapur Municipal Corporation in Paschim Bardhaman district, Dhupguri Municipality in Jalpaiguri district, Buniadpur Municipality in South Dinajpur district, Nalhati Municipality in Birbhum district, Haldiea and Panskura Municipality in Purba Medinipur district and the Coopers’ Camp Notified Area will be held on Sunday. Apart from these bye polls will be held for one ward Jhargram Municipality in Jhargram district and one ward in Champdani Municipality in Hogghly district.
Polls will be held on Sunday in 815 polling stations. While the Durgapur Municipal Corporation is the largest among the poll bound civic bodies with 43 wards and 491 polling stations, the smallest is the Coopers’ Camp Notified Area with 12 wards and 43 polling stations.
