August 10, 2017 14:15 IST
Updated:
August 11, 2017 07:51 IST
more-in
Says EPS camp has come half way
From an initial lukewarm reception to the Edappadi K. Palaniswami camp’s action against T.T.V. Dhinakaran, the rebel O. Panneerselvam faction came forward to acknowledge the step as the day progressed and hinted that this could set the tone for holding formal negotiations for a merger between the AIADMK (Amma) and AIADMK (PTA).
“They [Palaniswami camp] have passed a resolution [against Dhinakaran] and issued a statement on the issues we raised six months back when we started our ‘dharma yudham’ (battle for justice). They have come half way, let them cross the other. We will then express our stand,” Mr. Panneerselvam said before leaving to New Delhi for Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu’s swearing-in ceremony on Friday.
Mr. Panneerselvam said that there was no change in their demand that an inquiry should be ordered into former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s death and V.K. Sasikala and her family should be expelled from the AIADMK. However, he added that “if both factions come together, it would only be based on the wishes of the people of Tamil Nadu and party cadre.” Such an announcement as per the desire of the people could come very soon, he said.
Earlier in the day, senior leaders E. Madhusudhanan, K.P. Munusamy, S. Semmalai, Ma Foi K. Pandiarajan, Natham Viswanathan and Manoj Pandian met Mr. Panneerselvam at his
residence. The leaders, who were closeted for about four hours, discussed the statement issued by the Palaniswami camp. Following this, former Minister K.P. Munusamy, said the AIADMK (PTA) would welcome the Palaniswami faction’s decision only if they expel Sasikala and her family members too.
“Mr. Dhinakaran was expelled by Jayalalithaa ten years ago. We had said that he was not a member of the party. The Edappadi Palaniswami camp had accepted him. Now they are saying they are expelling him. Only now have they woken up,” Mr. Munusamy said.
He angrily responded to questions about possible positions that would be offered to Mr. Panneerselvam should there be a merger and flatly denied that any such agreement had been reached as reported in sections of the media.
Separately, a senior leader of the Panneerselvam camp told The Hindu that the resolution by the Palaniswami faction nullifying Mr. Dhinakaran’s appointment was a good first step.
“Their intention has finally come through. They are nearing our demands, but are yet to fulfil them,” he said.
