August 10, 2017 02:36 IST
Updated:
August 10, 2017 08:06 IST
more-in
Lack of proper drainage system results in waterlogging on roads
Heavy rain was reported from different parts of the State on Wednesday throwing life out of gear.
Rain battered Khammam town for over two hours on Wednesday morning causing extensive water-logging in low-lying areas mainly the residential localities abutting the clogged stretches of the Gollapadu channel here.
The intense spell of rain has resulted in overflowing of drains in many localities in three-town area, flooding of main streets near the bus stand, Jubilee Club, Nehru Nagar, Burhanpuram and other places under the Khammam Municipal Corporation limits.
Roads flooded
Vehicle users as well as pedestrians faced severe inconvenience due to inundation of streets in the low-lying areas of the town.
Stagnated rainwater entered into the cellars of several building complexes housing shops and other business establishments near Mayuri Centre exposing the glaring deficiency of lack of proper sewerage system in the rapidly growing town. The sanitation situation in the areas along the Gollapadu channel turned from bad to worse under the impact of the heavy downpour.
The pathetic condition of the channel clogged with mounds of garbage has yet again brought into focus the urgent need to modernise the drain, which continues to pose a major risk to public health.
In Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, the Kinnerasani and the Taliperu reservoirs have almost reached their respective full reservoir levels owing to significant inflows from the catchment areas of the two dams.
In Sangareddy heavy rainfall was reported right from early morning in the district headquarters and also Zaheerabad, Andol, Patancheru, Jinnaram and Gummadidala. Patancheru recorded 80 mm rainfall followed by Ameenpur and Ramchandrapuram 50.4 mm.
Coming after a three-week gap, the rainfall on Wednesday gave new lease of life for crops that were on the verge of withering. “This will give a great relief for me. I had sown paddy and cotton. Now I am hopeful that my crops will be saved as it was stated that there will be rain for the next four or five days,” said Anjaiah, a farmer from Kandi.
