August 09, 2017 19:29 IST
Updated:
August 09, 2017 19:29 IST
more-in
Homestays and resorts set up using housing permits
An inquiry has been initiated into the instances where permits for house construction were acquired from local bodies and homestays and resorts were set up instead using those permits in the Munnar grama panchayat area.
The District Collector has given a directive to collect the records of unauthorised constructions to ascertain how they had acquired the permits without the no objection certificates (NoC) from the Devikulam Subcollector which is mandatory for commercial constructions in Devikulam taluk as per a High Court order.
The respective panchayat secretaries under the Munnar tribunal area limits were directed to inquire into it and submit reports. After collecting details from the panchayat registry, officials of the panchaytas were directed to collect the details through personal inspection of the sites to ascertain whether they had been used for commercial purposes based on house permits.
In an inquiry conducted by the Devuikulam Subcollector there were instances that no mention in the registry regarding the construction, whether house or commercial building on NoC given by the local body.
It was alleged that there was connivance between the officials at the grama panchayat and the resort mafia in obtaining the NoC circumventing rules.
Panchyat secretaries had reported that in Munnar and Pallivasal local body area limits there were 114 buildings that violated building permits. In an affidavit before the Chennain bench of the Green Tribunal, the District Collector had said that 330 buildings unauthorisedly constructed/functioned in Devilulam taluk.
In the list of buildings without proper documents, 126 functioned in in Pallivasal grama panchayat alone. With the findings of 68 more unauthorised buildings in Pallivasaal, the number reached 194. Though an earlier inquiry had found that there were only seven unauothorised constructions in Munnar, in the latest recent inquiry the number touched 53.
It was also alleged that there were moves from some quarters to protect the buildings used for commercial purposes on the pretext that these buildings were below the 1,000 sq ft area limit.
