August 09, 2017 23:03 IST
Updated:
August 09, 2017 23:03 IST
more-in
Death of road accident victim following refusal of treatment at hospitals
Doctors from hospitals in Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram who allegedly refused to admit a road accident victim on Sunday night resulting in his death are likely to be arrested.
Kollam City Police Commissioner S. Ajeetha Begum told The Hindu that arrests were inevitable as a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder under Section 304 of the Indian Penal Code had been registered.
(It is a non-bailable offence pertaining to an act done with the knowledge that it is likely to cause death, but without any intention to cause death.)
The police said the initial arrests could be from a super-specialty hospital in Kollam. Medicity, Meditrina, and Azeezia hospitals in Kollam and the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, and SUT Royal hospital in the capital figure in the case as the victim was taken to these facilities.
CCTV footage
Along with the day’s records of the five hospitals, footage from CCTV in the ICU of these hospitals are being examined to see whether ventilators were vacant when the victim was brought to the hospital.
The hospitals had denied admission to the victim, Murugan, 30, a native of Tamil Nadu, claiming that ventilators were not vacant. There are allegations that the patient, who suffered serious head injuries, was denied admission as he was from an economically weak family.
According to statements given by the witnesses, apart from citing the ventilator aspect, the super-specialty hospital in question denied admission on the grounds that the victim had no caregiver with him.
The victim, who was in an ambulance, was at the portico of the hospital for over 20 minutes and yet no doctors examined him, said the police quoting statements of the witnesses.
A TRACK volunteer, who accompanied the victim in the ambulance, told the police that he had contacted two other hospitals in Thiruvananthapuram over the phone about ventilator vacancy but received a negative answer. The police are likely to probe that aspect too.
