August 09, 2017 22:12 IST
Updated:
August 09, 2017 22:12 IST
more-in
Cong. sought discussion on ‘discrepancy’ in ₹500 notes
Congress members forced three adjournments of the post-lunch proceedings in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday, demanding a discussion on the alleged discrepancy in the printing of ₹500 notes and the Chandigarh stalking case.
They turned down a compromise formula for passing the Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill before the discussion.
The government questioned the intention of the Congress members, accusing them of retracting from their commitment that they would cooperate in passing the Bill, which will replace an ordinance empowering the Reserve Bank of India to ask banks to take action against loan defaulters.
After the second adjournment, leaders from both sides met in the presence of Deputy Chairman P.J. Kurien to resolve the issue arising out of the Congress’s initial demand for a discussion on different-sized currency notes. When the proceedings resumed, Congress member Selja Kumari raised the Chandigarh stalking case, and alleged that the accused, son of the Haryana BJP chief, was being protected.
The other party members soon joined in, gathering in the Well of the House, shouting slogans. The Congress also sought the Union Home Minister’s statement on the issue, pointing out that Chandigarh was a Union Territory.
Observing that the Congress members were changing the subject, Mr. Kurien again tried to break the deadlock by asking the party’s Deputy Leader Anand Sharma to intervene and also attempted to involve members of other parties.
When the situation did not improve, he said he would take up the Bill anyway.
Discussion first
Mr. Sharma and some other Opposition members, including D. Raja of the CPI, requested the Chair not to pass the Bill in the din, and said there should be a discussion on it. When the Congress members did not relent, the Deputy Chairman adjourned the House for the day.
Earlier, Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi expressed apprehension that if the discussion was allowed first, the Congress would walk out later and the Bill would not be passed.
