August 09, 2017 21:07 IST
Updated:
August 09, 2017 21:07 IST
more-in
Says govt can go ahead with MBBS admission based on ₹5-lakh fee structure
The Kerala High Court on Wednesday ordered that the admission to MBBS seats in all the self-financing medical colleges be conducted based on the fee of ₹5 lakhs stipulated provisionally by the Justice R. Rajendra Babu Committee.
The Bench also directed that students seeking admission should pay the fee by way of demand draft taken in the name of the Commissioner for Entrance Examinations. The court also asked the State government to inform the students that the fee of ₹5 lakhs fixed by the committee was provisional and in case the fee was increased, they are liable to pay the excess fee. The court directed the government to publish the information on its website. The court asked managements to obtain bank guarantees for excess amount from the students.
The court made it clear that the self-financing medical colleges which had signed an agreement with the government need to collect only ₹5 lakh fixed by the committee during the process of the admission.
The court also restrained the State government from further signing agreements with any other self-financing medical colleges.
MES Medical College, Perinthalmanna; Sam Somervell CSI Medical College, Karakkonam; and Pariyaram Medical College had signed an agreement with the government for continuing with the previous year’s fee. While fee for the Pariayaram college was ₹10 lakh, the fee charged by the MES and CSI colleges came to ₹11 lakhs.
The Bench issued the interim order on a writ petition filed KMCT, Palakkad, and Karuna Medical Colleges against the fee stipulated provisionally by the committee and a petition filed by a few candidates challenging the agreement signed by the colleges with the government.
The interim directives were passed in view of the fact that the admission process need to be completed by September 10. The final hearing on the petitions will be held on August 21.
The Justice Rajendra Babu committee had provisionally fixed the fee for 85% of the MBBS seats in private self-financing medical colleges at ₹5 lakh and the fee for NRI seats at ₹20 lakh. While fixing the fee for 85% of the MBBS seats at ₹5 lakh, the committee had effected a ₹50,000 reduction in the fee from the fee fixed earlier. However, it had decided to increase the NRI seat fee to ₹20 lakh from ₹15 lakh fixed earlier.
It had also fixed the fee for BDS seats in general merit at ₹2.90 lakh and retained the fee for NRI seats at ₹6 lakh.
