JD(U) rift wide open: Sharad Yadav says he is still with Mahagathbandhan
ECONOMICTIMES.COM|
Aug 10, 2017, 03.12 PM IST
"People voted for Mahagathbandan and Nitish has betrayed 11 crore people by breaking Mahaganthbandan and joining hand with BJP," Sharad Yadav said.
NEW DELHI: Openly defying against Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar , senior JD(U) leader and former party president Sharad Yadav today said that he is still with Mahagathbandhan, erstwhile coalition between Congress, RJD and JD(U).
"I still stand with Mahagathbandhan (Grand Alliance) that was given a mandate by 11 crore people in Bihar in the 2015 assembly polls to rule for five years," Sharad Yadav said.
The stinging remarks come at a time when speculations of his split from the JD-U and even imminent sacking from the party are rife.
Without naming Nitish Kumar, Sharad Yadav said: "The decision to join hands with the BJP and form a government in Bihar was against the mandate given in the 2015 assembly polls against the BJP-led NDA.
"I was personally hurt and pained by (the decision)," he said. "I had also vigorously campaigned for the Grand Alliance."
Yadav is on a three-day visit to eight districts in Bihar including Patna, Muzaffarpur, Samastipur, Supaul and Madhepura.
He said he won't speak any more on the subject. "I will speak more when I visit people."
आज जनता से सीधा संवाद ३ दिवासिये कार्यक्रम के तहत सड़क मार्ग द्वारा मे आपके बीच रहूंगा। #जनहितअभियान#बिहार https://t.co/T5McbRqjCx
&mdash; SHARAD YADAV (@SharadYadavMP) 1502332796000
Rift in JD(U) has been evident ever since Nitish Kumar announced breaking up of mahagathbandhan and joining BJP to form new government in Bihar.
Earlier in the day, Sharad Yadav had praised Election Commission decision for disqualifying 2 MLAs' votes, which resulted into victory of Congress' Ahmed Patel in Gujarat Rajya Sabha polls.
Brilliant judgement of ECI in respect of Gujarat RS election deserves congratulations to officials of ECI.
&mdash; SHARAD YADAV (@SharadYadavMP) 1502336777000
Yadav had also congratulated Ahmed Patel after his victory soon after JD(U) sacked Yadav's confidante as the general secretary. JD(U)'s Chhotubhai Vasava, a leader from South Gujarat had voted for the Congress.
(Input from IANS)
